>> Sean Larkin: Let's do npm install gsap.
G-S-A-P.
So, I'll just do G-S-A-P.
Ooh it's a big one.
>> Sean Larkin: And
there it's not a pure module of GSAP too.
So like, they throw a bunch of
stuff willy nilly in globals.
And they're trying to work on that.
Like GSAP 2.0 is gonna be really awesome.
I've been working with Jack behind
the scenes for the last month or two.
So we add the GSAP,
let's just go ahead for example, right?
Now, I think it's import TweenMax,
or TweenLite from gsap.
I think that's a good example, or
I think maybe canonically
what people might do
is something like import
* as GSAP from gsap.
And you don't really have to use it.
I think this alone is enough for
us to showcase like, holy moly,
we've got a lot of unused code, right.
So, let's just see our
bundles increased in size.
Well, that escalated quickly.
There's 800 kilobytes, okay.
And we can still see, this is pretty small
amount of code in our lazy loading bundle.
So go ahead and jump into your dev mode.
I ran npm run dev.
And, let's just jump
back into the browser.
If you have Chrome,
I would encourage you so we can look and
do the coverage analysis.
So lets open the drawer.
Come on now, coverage.
>> Sean Larkin: I wish I could
just see that standalone.
I don't like how they make.
>> Sean Larkin: Well now, look at that!
>> Sean Larkin: That's super interesting
what the source maps do here.
>> Sean Larkin: So maybe this is actually
kind of hard to visualize when you have
source maps.
This is kind of a bug Cuz what it
does is it separates each file and
wraps it in an eval.
And so like it's actually showing you
how much of even this library is unused.
That's super interesting.
But, I guess that's okay.
This is kind of a feature too.
Originally I would expect to see this
bundle jump up in unused size, right?
You would see that.
In this case,
because we're using eval as a source map,
it's actually separating it
out into each individual file.
Which is kind of insightful.
And saying, hey,
you're instantly not using about
80% of GSAP, just by importing it, right?
So, even if we haven't
even played with it yet,
I'm sure it's like in the global scope.
So I bet, yeah,
like Tweenlite is in the window now, so.
How can we prevent this from happening?
So, let's say you don't actually need
it until you hit the button, right?
So we can take and we can lazy load this.
So, we can say const getGSAP.
Or here, let me just comment it out so
you can still see for context.
So const getGSAP = a function
that returns a dynamic import
of that module, right?
>> Sean Larkin: Okay.
>> Sean Larkin: Well,
let's go ahead, let's go back.
Let's do another profile analysis.
Let's just see what
happened just as of now.
>> Sean Larkin: Whoa!
It's not even on the list anymore.
Like, this is just the web
socket server for dev server.
But what's important is that,
it doesn't even show up, it's gone.
>> Sean Larkin: So we just dropped
like how much size from our bundles?
We just split out essentially an entire.
>> Sean Larkin: Looks like four,
five, 600 kilobytes.
>> Sean Larkin: Now, this is the dev mode,
so let's run a prod bundle now.
So we're just kinda seeing
the hot module replacement, so
these are the only updates
that were changed.
But we should actually see three
bundles that are now created, right?
Lets just run yarn prod and
look at our build folder.
>> Sean Larkin: Okay, so,
what do we have here?
There we go.
>> Sean Larkin: You'll notice that
actually what webpack is doing is taking
and it separates even the GSAP library
into an entirely separated bundle.
And there it is.
There is the GSAP code.
So, we've instantly saved ourselves
by taking a pretty heavy library and
asynchronously loading it.
Now of course, we would want to
use it inside of our button call,
or whatever our event is, right?
So, getGSAP().then, and then gsap.
I'm not sure what the best
one would be to access.
Gsap dot.
We can just console log it to
see what this actually returns.
I think that's fair.
So, I'll just run yarn dev and
we can see it again.
But we should see some console log
load along with an XHR request, right?
>> Sean Larkin: So go to our network.
I'm just gonna clear it for
the sake of being able to see.
And hey, two parallel requests!
Right?
>> Sean Larkin: Now of course,
if you still are watching coverage
you are like, now it jumps up.
But the point is that we use the coverage
tool to determine our initial load time or
the initial amount of code that's unused.
To just get your page rendered.